What to include in a ReadMe file?
A well-structured ReadMe file should contain the following elements.
DataSet identifiers
Include the title of the dataset, the names of the authors or contributors, the dates of data collection, and any relevant geographic or contextual information.
This establishes the identity of the dataset.
File and folder map
Describe how the dataset is organized.
Outline the folder structure, list the files included, and explain any naming conventions used.
This helps others understand how to navigate the data.
Methodological information
Provide a summary of how the data were collected or generated.
Mention tools, instruments, or protocols used, along with relevant experimental conditions.
Remember, the ReadMe should allow the dataset to stand alone, it should not rely on the associated publication for key details.
Instructions and software requirements
Let users know how to access and work with the files.
If specific software or code is needed, list it and include any version requirements.
Finally, sharing and access information.
Clearly state the licensing terms and conditions for reuse.
Indicate whether the dataset is openly available or has restrictions.
We recommend using a Creative Commons CCBY license for broad reuse.